thank you Mister secretary general your excellencies ladies and gentleman and distinguished guests I'm honored to be here today I stand before you not as an expert but as a concerned citizen one of the 400000 people marched in the streets of New York on Sunday and the billions of others around the world who want to solve our climate crisis . 
as an actor I pretend for a living I play fictitious characters often solving fictitious problems . 
leave that mankind is looked at climate change and that same way as if it were a fiction . 
just pretending that climate change wasn't real would somehow make it go away . 
but I think we all know better than that now . 
every week we're seeing you and undeniable climate events evidence that xcelerated climate change is here right now droughts are intensifying our oceans or set a fine with methane plumes rising up from the ocean floor we're seeing extreme weather events and the west Antarctic in Greenland ice sheets melting at unprecedented rates decades ahead of scientific projections . 
none of this is rhetoric and none of it is hysteria is fact the scientific community knows it industry knows it governments know what even the United States military knows . 
the chief of the US navy's Pacific command had little Samuel Locklear recently said that climate change is our single greatest security threat . 
my friends this body . 
perhaps more than any other gathering in human history now faces this difficult but she verbal tasks you can make history . 
or you will be vilified by . 
to be clear this is not about just telling people to change a light bulbs or to buy a hybrid car this disaster has grown beyond the choices that individuals make this is now about our industries and our governments around the world taking decisive large scale action . 
now must be our moment for action . 
we need to put a price tag on carbon emissions and eliminate government subsidies for oil coal and gas companies when you to end the free ride that industrial polluters have been given in the name of a free market economy they do not deserve our tax dollars they deserve our scrutiny for the economy itself will die if our ecosystems collapse the good news is that renewable energy is not only achievable but good economic policy . 
this is not a partisan debate is a human one clean air and a livable climate our inalienable human rights and solving this crisis is not a question of politics it is a question of our own survival . 
this is the most urgent of times and the most urgent messages honor del again . 
leaders of the world I pretend for a living but you do not the people made their voices heard on Sunday around the world and the momentum will not stop . 
but now it is your turn the time to answer humankind's greatest challenge is now we beg of you to face it with courage and honesty thank you . 
but now it is your turn the time to answer humankind's greatest challenge is now we beg of you to face it with courage and honesty thank you . 
